# Does Hybrid Working Affects Job Satisfaction?

## A research proposal for one of the courses at the University of Antwerp. Some key points:

Covid-19 upended the way of thinking about work. Do we need to try to adapt, or start thinking about the long term? The answer might come through job satisfaction and well-being in this new hybrid environment. This paper reports on the results obtained from LISS panel to investigate the relationship between general job satisfaction and hybrid working on the one hand, as well as focusing on separate aspects of job satisfaction, such as promotion satisfaction, satisfied atmosphere among colleagues and satisfaction with working hours. Using Covid as an IV, I point out that general job satisfaction is positive and significant for those who working from home, and this significance exists even when controlling on all the characteristics. Promotion’s satisfaction tends to be the highest and most significant compared to satisfaction among colleagues and satisfaction with working hours. Hybrid working is correlated to 37 percentage points increase in the probability to promotions’ satisfaction, while satisfaction among colleagues tend to be negative and significant for a hybrid worker. Working hours satisfaction has no significant impact on a hybrid worker, but it became negative and highly significant for women.


* DATASET
Data needed for the analysis comes from the LISS panel  (Longitudinal Internet Studies for the Social Sciences), the MESS project's principal component. It consists of 5,000 households, comprising approximately 7,500 individuals. This longitudinal study is repeated yearly and is designed to follow changes in the panel members’ life course and living conditions.  The panel is based on a valid probability sample of households drawn from the population register by Statistics Netherlands. The primary three studies that I used throughout this research was “Working and Schooling”. Working and Schooling is the first dataset from the core studies and provides information on labor market participation, job characteristics, pensions, schooling, and courses. It is used as panel data since I have merged all the available datasets of this core study from 2008 till 2021